# Lexique Sound Flashcard Generator For Anki
> Generates Anki import-able flashcards with DeepL translations and sound fields from the French Lexique 3.83.


## Installation

1. Clone or download this repository.
2. Download the Lexique.
3. In LibreOffice, open Lexique383.xlsb and 'Save As' Lexique383.csv (UTF-8) in desired directory.
4. For all the program files, you'll need to configure the input file and output locations.
5. [Optional] Adjust IDE/interpreter memory.\
    a. I gave my IDE 2 GiB. You could probably get away with less.
6. Register for DeepL API (free version is fine) and copy your API (auth) key into project_credentials.txt
7. Run the python files in order of file names.

## Release History

Most all work was done prior to release. I'll look at pushing fixes if people actually use this and report issues.

Everything is fully functional as of Ubuntu 24.04.1.

## Licensing/Resources

This project utilizes the Lexique 3.83 corpus and DELA dictionary.

### Lexique
This project generates flashcards from the Lexique (v3.83 used in testing although presumably other versions will also be compatible). The program is not a derivative work of the Lexique. However, any flashcards generated using the Lexique will fall under its derivative licensing.

Project link: http://www.lexique.org/ \
Licensing link: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/

Noteable Lexique Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International licensing information:
- The Lexique and its derivative works to include the flashcards generated by this program using the Lexique (but not the program itself as the code does not implicitly incorporate the Lexique - ergo incorporating a different corpus would not fall under this license) "may not [be used]... for commercial purposes."
- This project hereby provides credit to the Lexique project, provides a link to its license, and states that the this project will make changes to the Lexique in a reasonable manner in compliance with its license and acknowledges that in no way does this use suggest that the licensor endorses this project's creator(s) or their use. 

### DELA French dictionary
The original inflected form DELA French dictionary provided by the former Laboratoire d'Automatique Documentaire et Linguistique (LADL), now integrated into Institut Gaspard Monge (IGM) of the Université Gustave Eiffel uses the LGPLLR license.

Project link: https://infolingu.univ-mlv.fr/DonneesLinguistiques/Dictionnaires/telechargement.html \
Licensing link: https://infolingu.univ-mlv.fr/DonneesLinguistiques/Lexiques-Grammaires/lgpllr.html

Noteable DELA Lesser General Public License For Linguistic Resources licensing information:
- This program contains no derivative of the Linguisitic Resource. It is simply designed to work with the DELA. Under paragraph 3 of the LGPLLR: "...by reading it or being compiled or linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Linguistic Resource". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Linguistic Resource, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License."
- Regarding generated flashcards produced by this program, while the dictionary is used to double check the Lexique for bad data, all data used in the flashcards themselves are sourced from the Lexique rather than the DELA and therefore also fall outside the scope of DELA's LGPLLR License.

## Meta
Distributed under the MIT license and derivative licenses where applicable.
